The ‘miracle’ of the sole passenger who survived the Air India flight
Viswashkumar Ramesh, on Air India Flight 171 in seat 11A, was the only survivor after the plane crashed in Ahmedabad. An expert called his escape “extraordinary.”

Updated June 13, 2025
4 min

Summary



395

An investigation team inspects the wreckage of Air India Flight 171 on Friday, a day after it crashed in a residential area near the airport in Ahmedabad, India. (Sam Panthaky/AFP/Getty Images)
By Vivian Ho and Supriya Kumar
Only one person on board Air India Flight 171 survived — British national Viswashkumar Ramesh, who could be seen limping past a crowd of shocked rescuers toward an ambulance shortly after the crash killed the other 241 passengers and crew members, as well as dozens of people on the ground in Ahmedabad.

Ramesh, 40, has been described as the “miracle in seat 11A” in British media, and several top Indian officials — including Prime Minister Narendra Modi — have visited him in the hospital.

“I don’t know how I survived,” Ramesh said in an interview from his hospital bed with broadcaster Doordarshan on Friday, with one arm heavily bandaged and a bloodied cut under his eye.

“I was on the side of the plane that crashed on the ground floor of the hostel,” he said, adding that both the emergency door and his seat were broken in the crash. “When the door broke, I saw that there was some space for me to get out. That’s how I escaped.”

“The other side of the plane was stuck in the hostel wall. No one would have been able to escape from that side,” he added. The plane crashed into a college hostel shortly after takeoff.


1:55

From a hospital bed, Viswashkumar Ramesh recounted how he escaped the wreckage of the Air India crash that killed more than 200 people in Ahmedabad, India. (Video: Jackson Barton/Reuters)
Graham Braithwaite, director of aerospace and aviation at Britain’s Cranfield University, called Ramesh’s survival “extraordinary.”

“An aircraft crash-landing in an uncontrolled way in a built-up area and when full of fuel is one of the worst scenarios in terms of survivability,” Braithwaite said.